---
layout: default
<!-- title: Ruminations -->
---

<h2>Ruminations</h2>

<h4>2021-02-26, 五. On the Artist as Eccentric.</h4>
Why is it so common to find among creatives intolerable stubbornness,
intractable visions, beings who not only create uncanny works but also live in
aberration? The roaring litany of writers and artists, comedians and activists,
philosphers and actors, all those whose independence demand they be
uncompromisingly themselves, count among their ranks disproportionately
tumultuous lives where madness, passion, obsession, ailment, and insanity
correlate with ingenuity—so much so that this observation can be made: the more
eccentric the artist, the more productive and outstanding. This is as it must
be. The nature of art does not call for reason, health, normalcy, or sustainable
living, but rather an open embrace of the vivacity of life, whether they be
struck by calamity, malady, treason, failure, despair, subject entirely to
factors beyond their control, and then having the wisdom to recognize it in the
mirror and follow it.

The artist does not concern himself with the illusory promise of happiness and
joy because his muse never appears when happy. Rather, the artist does not
resist and even pursues the experimental, the new, the traces of suffering that
lead further and further into himself. How do we explain this trait that artists
take for granted as dearly as life's motto? Others have written about this
potent capacity. Keats called it negative capability. Martha Nussbaum said of
Mahler's KINDERTOTENLIEDER (tr. Songs on the Death of Children): "That music is
consoling because it brings you to terms with the finality of loss in such an
eloquent way. Now, I wouldn't have said of the KINDERTOTELIEDER, that's a
beautiful work. I think most listeners wouldn't use that word. It's a harrowing
work, but it's precisely for that reason that it's consoling . . . To me the
greatness of Mahler is his getting to the depths of the inexorability of loss,
and the real, deep pain that human life affords, and I think if you can't get to
the depth of that pain you also can't get to the heights of the joy of human
life." The artist reeks in Nietzsche's superman who said: "But you, also, my
brethren, tell me: What does your body say about your soul? Is your soul not
poverty and pollution and wretched self-complacency? . . . What is the greatest
thing you can experience? It is the hour of great contempt. The hour in which
even your happiness becomes loathsome to you, and so also your reason and
virtue. The hour when you say: 'What good is my happiness? It is poverty and
pollution and wretched self-complacency.'" It is not without reason that
Tolstoy's ANNA KARENINA opens with, "All happy families are alike; every unhappy
family is unhappy in its own way". What story is there to tell that ends with
smiles all around? It is finished at the full stop. The principal trouble isn't
that there is a lack of content but that any such story does not even intend to
capture the human experience in any adequate form, real or imagined, but only a
sorry fantasy. There is a reason no serious artist or critic concerns himself
with happiness. To have a joyful, gregarious, harmonious life is to sedate those
impulses of the self that embody the wonderful spectrum of humanity. Happiness
is pleasing. Happiness fulfills. Happiness quenches. Happiness is indolent
satisfaction. Happiness does not answer the call to meaning—happiness is boring.
A happy story represents nothing. It says nothing, it expresses nothing—it is
nothing. Not every artist can explain what drives him, but all have at least
this in common, an instinctive understanding of what doesn't work. To be clear,
I need to add a disclaimer that I am not an elitist. Conventional happy stories
have a time and place, and the market that caters to it, with public's appetite
for it, have the purpose of leisure and recreation for normal people who have
jobs in the day and families at home, and the producers for this market are
bounds and away more influential than any avant-garde conception sequestered in
exclusive circles. I enjoyed THE GAME OF THRONES too, but don't expect me to
take it seriously, or THE HUNGER GAMES, or any superhero amusement park like THE
AVENGERS coming out of Hollywood. They were not made for the artist and do not
expand human consciousness, they do not belong in the same category as Proust or
Hugo, and so do not deserve the  same consideration. Artists are eccentrics for
a reason. One does not expect a scientist to be without his discipline and
objectivity, so how can one expect an artist to live in conformity and produce
mere replicas of what already exists? How can one critique in earnest the
society in which he lives when he breathes in it, when behind his white lies he
stands to lose the most from brutal honesty? But also, how does the artist know
what he's talking about unless he's lived in it?

Difficult childhoods, agitation, disturbed thoughts, and uncommon life
experiences are also what fuel stand-up comedians for whom reality and society
as given do not give proper venue to adequate expression. How disaffected were
Richard Pryor, Lenny Bruce, and Sarah Silverman that they could not look at life
without also seeing its magnificent comedy, that which doesn't even cross the
minds of normal people? Such torment is also what strikes a comedian as
intellectual as Stephen Fry. And it is not only creatives who are capable of an
alternate view. Jane Goodall, who never planned on becoming a scientist but
rather thought of herself as an artist who wanted to live among animals in
Africa and write about them, spent who knows how long on her own in the forest,
and she said, "Some people will pick out tiny things as beauty. Other people
won't even notice them. The shape of a wet leaf on the pavement, even in an ugly
place. A footstep on the sand filling up with water. The whole picture you can
get—a child's footprint and a dog's paw, and a tide coming in—can be very
beautiful. Other people might just tramp over them and not see them at all." She
said too, "A simple fly landed on me—this one was shining green and gold, and it
had little specks of red— beautiful fly, bristly fur on its abdomen. And I
looked at it and thought, when a chimpanzee looks at something like this, he
doesn't have the word, the word 'fly'. So he's looking at it as it is. Now I'm
imagining myself being in a situation of not having words, so if I can
categorize it as a fly it takes away from something of the beauty of the
moment—because it's just a 'fly'—so forget 'fly' and look at this being that's
there." How can an artist be a reiteration of the cookie-cutter norm of
conformity? Someone wholesome and functional is amenable and pleasant and may be
unconditionally kind and deserving of kindness in return, yet these traits of
rigid regularity are confining and sterile. Normal people, like anyone, are to
be treated with customary courtesy but it would be a mistake to expect them
to take the artist where he wishes to go. At the end of the day, an
artist can speak his mind only with another artist, and separating him from
everyone else is the unbridgeable gap between forever strangers. This notion is
crucial, especially for the artist, whose value is his vision. The image of the
artist as disturbed, reclusive, tormented, is the right one. Privacy and
seclusion are essential to being oneself. Without his privacy, how could Sacha
Baron Cohen have concocted his social and political vessel to become a
ridiculous buffoon like BORAT? Frances McDormand, who shuns the usual Hollywood
celebrity and lives away from the limelight, unencumbered by maintaining an
image of propriety, not hidden behind seven layers of makeup, not draped in the
season's designer advertisement, could not but be genuine. She lives remotely,
modestly, saying, "I get to live my more authentic self here, and I don’t have
to pretend to be anybody else." Why do we suppose hardly anyone has seen Thomas
Pynchon? The idea is the same as when Thoreau sought to confront only "the
essential facts of life." Rousseau wrote REVERIES OF THE SOLITARY WALKER. And do
we fault William Blake for his singular vision? Or Proust who retired from the
world to write his novel, the man who, having lived life, sat down to write
about it? Or Aaron Swartz for abhorring the white noise in the office? Rilke
wrote, "We are solitary. We can delude ourselves about this and act as if it
were not true. That is all. But how much better it is to recognize that we are
alone; yes, even to begin from this realization."

The artist, accustomed to time alone, dedicated to communicating through his
work, does not have the habit of doing so in person. When his interviewer
expressed frustration at eliciting a response, Coetzee said, "The questions you
have posed to me are, many of them, difficult questions, and it's my habit of
mind to reflect and revise and try to attain a certain completion and perfection
in my responses, and that is incompatible with the interview medium. That's why
I've been so extremely uncomfortable." Coetzee belongs to the category of
artists who are not outwardly striking but instead modest and unassuming, who
live largely uneventful lives outside of their work, as do I. I do believe that
I speak for the artists in this category when I say our ideas come not from
outside but from within, and any perturbance on our part only distracts us from
seeing the vision. A painter expressed my experience of artistic creation when
he said, "I wait till the inner lights to go on. The inner light means it's the
moment I start to paint. If the inner light goes on in me I start right away to
paint, everything is there, the paint, the canvas. And I paint till the end, but
there's no end. I live in a lawless world. There is no law. The end is spiritual
orgasm . . . You have to sit and wait until the inner light goes on.  It is only
by sitting and waiting, if you wait for the inner lights to go on, then you can
talk. Now I have contact with the planet, the surroundings. It has nothing to do
with logical or practical things. Speaking like practical, logical,
philosophical people is not the real way. It is the wrong way. Clever, handy,
routine is the wrong way. You have sit and wait until the inner lights go on in
you and then we can talk." I don't think myself a kind person, or particularly
humble, try as I may. When the moment strikes, I sit quietly and write wherever
I happen to be, and the affair is entirely without spectacle. To watch me
writing would be beside the point. It is entirely a solitary process and not one
worth witnessing. What matters is what comes out as a result of subsuming all
senses, imagination, experience, sentiment, an eye attentive to life, trusting
an unwavering taste to channel what is worth writing into the written word. It
would not be productive to ask me how I wrote it either because  I myself do not
know. Csikszentmihalyi called this experience "flow", but there's a distinction
to be made between the rational and the creative processes. The throes of
engagement when writing a computer program does not feel the same as the chaos
and darkness of writing prose that's at risk of slipping away. I can write
comments about what I wish to code and come back later; I don't have that luxury
with prose that runs dry when I've lost how I wanted to write it. The ideas I
hear from the inner voice in the passing moments that I deem worth writing are
not easily reproducible and only seem they can after the fact because they sit
on the page, outside my head. When I finish a coding session I emerge with a
sense of completion in the head, the kind of lifeless, fading satisfaction that
comes with overcoming an intellectual puzzle. But with prose, after long hours
swimming in the night ocean, the weary soul attains a deep satiety that isn't
quite joy so much as a sense of meaning from having danced with life.

Elon Musk was right when he said that companies should "spend less time on
finance, spend less time in conference rooms, less time on PowerPoint and more
time just trying to make [their] product as amazing as possible." But he stops
short of the reason those in management refuse to do the obvious and innovate.
He is asking MBAs, whose primary value proposition is to stand before an
audience and sell fancy numbers tacked onto colorful pictures, to use skillsets
they don't have and be engineers and designers, thinkers and experimentalists,
to give themselves over to late nights in the office, putting off family duties,
placing the product above themselves. Erving Goffman called it "body glossing"
when someone explicitly signals to others his activity that is otherwise
indiscernible—checking our phone as we wait in a lobby to inform passersby that
we're waiting for someone. When an MBA stands in front of a slide deck, the
entire body is glossing. Title and formality, power and position, capital and
distance secure a comfort that resists change and new ideas. Who doesn't want to
be a visionary? But what does it cost? The flip side of this coin is that it is
unreasonable to expect everyone to be a relentless innovator. Whether it is the
changing priorities in life as we age, our divergent aspirations due to
different backgrounds, our accustomed privilege, one cannot expect the bulk of
the workforce to demand on themselves a rocketship's takeoff protracted to a
lifetime, exhilarating and glorious but also consuming and precarious.
Innovators, radicals, and progressives are and will continue to remain a faint
portion of society, loud and inspiring but few and precious. Most of us, indeed,
are content being normal: a job is just a job. How dispiriting! and yet how true
to human nature! and I too shall one day fall in place! A voice in me bares
itself and screams: Have I sailed the seven seas, summited K2's peak, unveiled
the secrets of humanity, pried into the mysteries of the universe, have I become
all that which I aspired to be, have I pushed the boulder up the mountain
enough, have I seen the apocalypse and returned to live my days knowing I've
reached the end, that there was no more, have I tapped into the wavelength of
what it means to be alive, a fragile collection of stardust that wonders its
place among the stars? Writing's music cannot express convulsive pangs as purely
as music in the plain, heard over shut eyes—I am reminded of Michael Nyman's
TIME LAPSE. And so too I am reminded of Hesse: "Eternity is a mere moment, just
long enough for a joke."

<br>

<h4>2021-02-20, 六. How it Ends and Elsewhere Begins Anew.</h4>
A daughter returns to Greece with her father who was born there. He is returning
to exhume his mother. The country's shortage of burial space means the dead lie
in rented land, staying for three years before their family must come to
retrieve their bones to make room for someone else. The uncle hadn't left the
small town with the father decades ago and is the one digging. He clears away
the soil, pulling up bits of coffin and bone. The Greeks bury their dead facing
west, where the sun sets and where life ends. The daughter is next to her
father. First comes the skull with the hair still brown. Then a shoulder bone, a
clavicle, and some ribs. The daughter takes a second to look at her father and
then back to her uncle. More bones come up, and he reaches a femur and the feet.
The uncle steps out. He and the father put the pieces together with their hands.
When they are done, the daughter looks at her father who is looking at his
mother assembled on the ground. The daughter feels guilty when the thought
occurs to her that she might one day stand where her father is. The thought
lingers for a second before she glances at the ground and thinks, that's where
life once was. Only the three of them are present, and the ceremony has no music
or fanfare. Her father will box his mother's remains and bring them to a room
that also houses others she'd grown up with. A gentle breeze in the air. The
daughter knows that when she returns to work next week, she will have to rejoin
her colleagues in the usual office banter. The sun is heavy this afternoon but
she knows too the sun does not shine for her.

childhood flashbacks<br>
at unexpected moments<br>
those beautiful days<br>
this longing may never end.<br>
might we as parents<br>
reading to our children<br>
a book from our yore<br>
reconcile first memories?<br>
we, passing them down<br>
this little person<br>
half is me<br>
is this what my mother saw in my blank eyes<br>
herself reflected<br>
looking at her mother<br>
she as her

<br>

<h4>2021-02-11, 四. On Race, Diversity, and Immigration.</h4>
Today's post is delicate for obvious reasons. Reader be warned, this may make
you more uncomfortable than my other posts, but this is an important issue to
explore.<br>
___

Let's cast aside the political polarization for a moment and have a mature
conversation on race and the future identity of America. It's not popular these
days but I don't think it's inherently racist to talk about race and its
practical consequences, from both perspectives: the white's and the person of
color's. There are very real issues that have to be addressed. The recent rise
of neo-Nazies, conspiracy theories, and white supremacism is not possible under
a well-functioning democracy. It only happens when people are insecure and under
threat, and this threat stems from 1) poor white folks who feel the country has
forgotten them and 2) the rapid demographic changes are altering the country's
identity. I have nothing insightful to say about the first reason on top of the
obvious need to address the problem. This post addresses the second reason.

<b>Discontent</b>

Here are the facts.
<a href="https://www.brookings.edu/blog/the-avenue/2018/03/14/the-us-will-become-minority-white-in-2045-census-projects/">Estimates</a>
project that the country will become majority non-white in 2045. It's very soon—
I'll likely still be alive when it happens. What do whites, who are losing
representation, think of this? A
<a href="https://www.pewresearch.org/social-trends/2019/03/21/views-of-demographic-changes-in-america/">survey</a>
found nearly as many view it positively (26%) as negatively (28%).

I'd like to first write a bit with the 28% in mind. At the extreme is the
far-right. Richard Spencer, Lauren Southern, and Gavin McInnes are saying, "We
built the wealthiest nation on Earth, we introduced democracy and defended it,
we created a free state for all, we created the modern world, and who are these
foreigners coming over and stealing our inheritance from us?" This is indeed the
reality, and I have to say, they have a point. There's a conversation to be had,
certainly not one I can settle but let's examine this further. My view in the
end is that resources, opportunities, and equitable values should not be hoarded
within lines as arbitrary as race.

It's worth repeating: I don't think it's racist to talk about whites wishing to
preserve Western civilization. It's a matter of defensive self-conservation. The
far right is the loudest but in today's intolerance that's the only venue to
voice this defensive stance. Again I don't think this is racist but their
concern is they're being pushed out. I read this from somewhere online—to my
fellow liberals, this might be useful to see where the right is coming
from—consider a white person moving to China and demanding that Chinese culture
be moved aside, that the Chinese should lose rights for racial equality, and
that the Chinese should be disarmed and have no option to push back. It's not
racist but such actions provoke self-defense even by a neutral bystander. The
question is whether it's fair to believe the dominant culture of the country
(white culture) would be happy becoming just another minority group and losing
the power it's had since the country's inception. I'd like to believe so because
the way forward for the country is to accommodate all Americans but I suspect
many white folks, openly or privately, don't—specifically the 28% in the survey
who didn't even bother pretending. The question isn't about equality. The
country's changing racial demographics is like saying: imagine a Britain that's
not predominantly British or a China that's not predominantly Chinese. And no
matter our skin color, if any of us takes a stroll along the Seine in Paris and
see more Muslims in hijabs than the original French, does Paris feel French?
This is the unsettling reality. Suppose for a moment that we lifted every poor
white American out of poverty and secured their future prospects. Even then,
would they be happy with no longer being able to identify with what the country
is becoming? Conservatives feel their homeland is being hijacked even while we
progressives see inequality at every turn. It's a problem in Europe too with the
Syrian refugee crisis. Whiteness, Christianity, and the European identity that
built the country are being threatened and what we're doing is blanket-blocking
any mention of it as racist when there's a valid point here.

This problem extends to academia. A very recent vanguard in the humanities has
essentially been saying: "we" have been oppressed, colonialized,
underrepresented, and now that we're empowered we're going to take what's ours
and air our dirty laundry. I'm not saying their push for equality is wrong but
that they leave no room for the other side in a climate of cancel culture. Think
of all the academics whose entire careers are based on what is now blatantly
called imperialist and colonialist. The premise of the country as a free state
where all are equal is not possible when we are separating ourselves into
piecemeal subcultures defending our turf. America cannot be an either/or but has
to be an inclusive both/and. Among many other adjustments, the required
coursework reading may very well have to change from the exclusively white
Western canon and the field may need some serious reflection on its context and
history, but this doesn't mean dissolving the discipline, as Dan-el Padilla
Peralta is open to doing with the classics. Let's recall that even ideas as
radically departing from traditional Western perspective as those in Edward
Said's ORIENTALISM didn't call for destroying the whole field.

What is happening is human nature: everyone pursues his interest, and it is the
country that plays mediator for all citizens. Can we each stop demonizing the
other side? It is useful to keep in mind John Rawls' veil of ignorance and take
a step back from our particular place in society to think larger. With America
soon to become majority non-white, we have to make peace with that fact. Now,
onto something more interesting.

<b>Towards a Brighter Future</b>

This is sobering: a
<a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3313831.3376654">study</a>
last year found that when people are forming teams and adding members, they
deliberately reduce diversity when they are shown whether a potential member
boosts or drops the team's overall diversity. This behavior looms large.
For all we tout diversity in our public relations messaging, for all the
apparent diversity in cities, residential neighborhoods are largely segregated
by race, even in our most diverse cities:
<a href="https://www.gc.cuny.edu/page-elements/academics-research-centers-initiatives/centers-and-institutes/center-for-urban-research/cur-research-initiatives/the-end-of-segregation-hardly">New York City</a>,
<a href="https://belonging.berkeley.edu/racial-segregation-san-francisco-bay-area">San Francisco</a>, and
<a href="https://today.uic.edu/new-report-details-chicagos-racial-ethnic-disparities">Chicago</a>.
And <a href="http://racialdotmap.demographics.coopercenter.org">this</a> map
shows the race distribution in the country using the 2010 census data, with one
dot per person, each dot colored by race. This is the undeniable state of
affairs: de facto segregation. Residential segregation translates to school
segregation. <a href="https://www.kqed.org/lowdown/30098/why-have-americas-public-schools-gotten-more-racially-segregated">These</a>
maps show segregation consistent with the country's racialized geography, and
this is over half a century after <i>Brown v. Board of Education</i>.
Whatever image of a racially integrated country we may have in mind is not just
overly optimistic but entirely wrong. PRRI
<a href="https://www.prri.org/research/poll-race-religion-politics-americans-social-networks/">surveyed</a>
racial compositions in 2013 of social networks within racial groups and
revealed shocking homogenity. Among whites, 91% of friends are also white,
among Blacks, 83% are Black, and among Hispanics, 64% are Hispanic. And Asians?
No data for us. We're invisible. But these numbers remind me of Beverly
Daniel Tatum's WHY ARE ALL THE BLACK KIDS SITTING TOGETHER? because of its
title and how it cuts at the core of the matter. What is disheartening is I have
not even the slightest instinct to say these numbers are out of touch with
reality. What about the entertainment we consume? A
<a href="https://academic.oup.com/joc/article-abstract/61/2/369/4098571">study</a>
found "[w]hite participants showed significantly less interest in seeing movies
with mostly Black casts than in seeing movies with mostly [w]hite casts."
Another
<a href="https://www.baltimoresun.com/news/bs-xpm-1996-05-02-1996123149-story.html">study</a>
found that whites and Blacks have few favorite TV shows in common.
And books? I couldn't find a study on this, but let's be honest. If we can't
even bring ourselves to watch movies and TV across races, how many do we suppose
have read James Baldwin, Maya Angelou, or Toni Morrison? Or Zadie Smith, Salman
Rushdie, Orhan Parmuk?

So we don't live together, don't go to the same schools, aren't friends with
each other, don't watch the same movies or TV shows, and if we meet each other
at work what guides our conversations is a societal restraint from broaching
race that precludes any serious discussion and mingling. How then are we to make
friends across racial lines if we don't have much in common, can't point out the
obvious, and skirt about the issue by talking shop, and when we invite that
friend to our circle of largely homogenous friends we are also transferring the
burden of restraint to them? And what are we talking about when we say with such
conviction that we understand the Black plight or that of other minorities who
have been less abused and less disenfranchised over the course of the country's
history if the immensity of our unquestioned confidence comes from—indeed
betrays—our own realities, our projected mythologies and imaginations exchanged
among friends, cloistered in our communities where everyone looks and thinks
like ourselves?

Racial inequality is something we can't help but pick up on. We adults don't
talk about it because we've learned restraint, afraid of saying the wrong thing,
and instead keep quiet or look away. Kids notice it too but are more open to
speaking their minds. In the podcast NICE WHITE PARENTS, the host Chana
Joffe-Walt describes this kind of situation when white students, who bring more
funding power, started enrolling at a predominantly Black and Hispanic middle
school: "These boys, even at 11 years old, they've absorbed the same messages
that [the school] wasn't so good before. It was a bad school. He and his
friends, they've turned the school around. That's what he's learning." This is
what the boy in question said: "The kids wouldn't pay attention. And they had,
like--got to, like, zone out every little thing. And I bet they learned very
little. And now this generation with us, I think we're doing a lot better. And I
think that we're learning at a much faster pace." This comment isn't racist so
much as it's an innocent observation of a consequence of our education system
and a history of suppression, and what he is saying is something we all notice
when we come across it, but the current political and social climate casts over
us a pall that mutes what we already know as wise silence.

Here I digress to put in a word on immigration. Like any proper New Yorker, I am
a flaming liberal. I support the idea of equal opportunity for all whether in
this country or in any other. In spite of this, I don't think the answer to the
immigration question is to throw open our doors and let everyone in. There is a
limit to how many the country can tolerate without bankrupting the social
system. David Frum
<a href="https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2019/04/david-frum-how-much-immigration-is-too-much/583252/">notes</a>
the practical concerns of immigration, that immigrants cost the
government more than they contribute in taxes. A part of me says this is the
price of an egalitarianism, but this deficit also surfaces a brutal reality. How
can we accommodate indefinitely more immigrants when our country is already
steep in debt and millions of our own, those we look in the eye as our fellow
Americans, are struggling? Frum advocates focusing our immigration policy to
accept highly skilled immigrants—doctors and engineers—who earn their keep and
help the country remain innovative. This, of course, means a continual brain
drain from their home countries, which strangely enough has been found to
increase wages and democratic values back home. I'm not convinced, however, that
losing a nation's best and brightest helps a developing country stand on its own
and catch up rather than merely benefiting indirectly from Western progress. But
this is the price of supplying American innovation, securing American
well-being.

Diversity—why is it so difficult? I'm an atheist, yet I've sat with a Protestant
as he prayed for me, I've linked hands with Catholics saying grace before a
meal, I've attended Mass, I've sat in classes full of Catholics. I've joined the
Muslim retreat at the Blue Mosque as the muezzin called and witnessed the hall's
worshipers kneeling on the floor in prayer. I put on a kippah in Jerusalem and
stood face-to-face with the Wailing Wall. I sat among the local community in
Mumbai at a Hindu engagement ceremony. So what that I'm an atheist? We should
keep in mind that what feels foreign to one is home to another, and it was the
arbitrary slight of chance that we ourselves were not born into another's
community.

Diversity is the country's future, and it is a future when the landscape of
writers and directors will have changed, along with the TV-watching and
movie-going market whose preference commands what the entertainment industry
produces. One day, this era's fight for social justice, equal representation,
true equality under law and its enforcement, will have been but one chapter in
the transition to a more equitable world. And one day, we will not think it out
of the ordinary that a lead actor is brown though we notice it and are aware of
the long struggle that made such casting possible, and we will not be
uncomfortable watching a person of color rejoice or sulk or have the full range
of experiences of any ordinary human. One day, the unsightly practice will have
passed when the camera deigns a moment for the diversity shot and then cuts
away, returning to the default whiteness. The country's future is mixed, and we
have to accept this as a reality, not boil over with veiled resentment.

William Buckley Jr. wrote, "A conservative is someone who stands athwart
history, yelling Stop." What nonsense! How shortsighted is his view of history
that for him, history extends no further than the past several hundred years
since the Great Divergence that marked the West's emergence as the world's
wealthiest and most advanced civilization, and he happened to have lived in the
period when such self-flattery is possible. The one constant that endures time
is change, and just as no individual lives forever in his youthful peak, no
society is immune to its evolving fortunes. How many came before who met worse
fates have had to accept change? Russians, Indians, Chinese, Persians, Turks,
Aztecs, Egyptians, and all those who belonged to once thriving civilizations: if
it is any consolation, others have been here before, and the decline of white
power in America is one peaceful tick of change in the ocean of our inflated
self-importance. How many in those prior civilizations screamed that the end is
nigh, yet the world has moved on, and they carry about themselves in it as
routinely as the Earth revolves around the Sun? It's always irked me how any
mentioning the fall of the Roman Empire carries an air of puritanical
nationalism, that it is with resignation that such greatness came to an end. It
certainly was great, but we give the invaders who brought its fall the
exceedingly flattering name of barbarians even though they too had families and
lives, pursuing their interests just as the Romans theirs, and these barbaric
tribes don't seem barbarians any longer when we name them properly: the Franks
settling in modern France, the Visigoths in modern Spain, the ancestors of the
moderns. We sympathize so intensely with the Romans because we see only one
side, and the fact that we continue to use the word barbarians descends from
this lineage—it's what the Romans called outsiders. It is worth reminding
ourselves the truth Carl Sagan pointed out in COSMOS: "National boundaries are
not evident when we view the Earth from space. Fanatical ethnic or religious or
national chauvinisms are a little difficult to maintain when we see our planet
as a fragile blue crescent fading to become an inconspicuous point of light
against the bastion and citadel of the stars." That blue crescent formed
4,500,000,000 years ago, of which we humans developed agriculture in the last
12,000 and began laying the foundation for civilization. It is outright foolish
to think that human culture has peaked and should change no further. The future
of the country is diversity and what must happen: acceptance and unity, not
separation and exclusion. Why not imagine a future where we contain Whitman's
multitudes? Across canyons and valleys, lush green praries and eroded rock
strewn over sand-blown desert, towering mesas and redwood forests, we find small
towns and major metropolises decorating the land under the snow-capped
mountains, for we are all of us American: brown and yellow and black and white
and blue and red, bound not by prescriptions of the isolated echo chambers that
came before but by a full forward march, hand in hand, towards a history that
will bear our names in pioneering pride. When we were children we saw ourselves
as adventurers and explorers, looking out at a world full of mystery, curious at
everything, unafraid to learn, elated to be alive. Where has that sense of awe
and wonder gone?

<br>

<h4>2021-02-09, 二. In Defense of Abstract Art.</h4>
Why view abstract art? When we stand before an abstract painting, what is it
that we're looking at in the indeterminate swirls that don't even remotely
resemble a person, a place, or anything familiar? I wish to address why I prefer
abstraction.

If we can represent nature by reducing it into a set of equations, why not too
visual expression into art's purest form? And what is visual art on the canvas
but the strokes of a brush painting in the four variables of color, shape, size,
and space? Consider Mondrian, Rothko, and Kandinsky. They use these variables to
their own vision, and even with such a small arsenal, how can we say their
compositions are anything but wholly unlike each other? It is often mentioned
that abstract paintings lack technical difficulty. To this I say that the
difficulty of abstraction is in the conception which requires a certain
maturity, not in the elitist sense, but in the capacity to grasp symbolism to
its devastating potential. One way to conceive of the world is to view nature
and the universe as the eternal constants in which we measly humans flicker by,
but another, equally valid one is to place ourselves at the central vantage
point because what will it all have mattered if we don't exist? To appreciate
abstraction is to take the leap from merely mimicking reality, scrupulously
copying down its concretized distinctions and its various shades of light, to
human expression, the crux of what it means to be alive.

I remember the first time I encountered Barnett Newman's VIR HEROICUS SUBLIMIS.
I was pulled to it as if by a magnet, drawn up close to the life-sized red
canvas, the red consuming my entire field of vision, and I felt shivers running
down my spine. Staring straight ahead, I felt transported to another realm, and
what ran through me for a full minute was a whole world of sensory saturation.
The canvas encased all passion, all desire, all rage, all triumph, and it was
surging excitement, jubilation: the sublime. What I felt was nothing less than
the chaos of the universe, human folly, birth and death, our meaningless
motions, coming together in a form so simple. It is an overflowing power even
though the painting does not laboriously enumerate all human mistakes under the
sky, it does not have any semblance of a character or story, it doesn't have any
material substance other than color and size, for this impalpability mirrors
what we have in the end: nothing. And this sensory experience is the meaning of
the work, needing no other indication than the title: Man Heroic Sublime. Some
attempt to approach the painting using traditional methods, examining its
construction and the artist's background. To do so is to have missed the point.
They place undue emphasis on the vertical lines, the zips, and deconstruct the
order in which Newman painted them—it's a rather simple exercise of withholding
some vertical space with tape and then either painting between a pair or
painting around one. But this is not the right way to look at the painting, and
we do not understand the painting through its technicalities any more than we
get closer to understanding what enables life by analyzing the brain's atomic
makeup. The zips merely serve to provide a sense of size for a painting that
stands taller than any viewer.

I am not suggesting that expression and meaning is limited to abstraction's
dominion. Consider Norman Rockwell's undeniably political THE PROBLEM WE ALL
LIVE WITH, or Caspar David Friedrich's proud WANDERER ABOVE THE SEA OF FOG, or
Giorgio de Chirico's dreary THE MELANCHOLY OF DEPARTURE, or the contrast of
human transience and the mountain's unfazed apathy in Hokusai's EJIRI IN THE
SURUGA. Let's not forget Yayoi Kusama's more visceral infinity mirror
installations that manifest her internal world, rife with obsessions, a black
room illuminated by floating lights all around, all receding into the horizon, a
world on fire from which there is no escape, a world into which the public
voluntarily steps. Or the same concept rendered more explicit in Edvard Munch's
THE SCREAM, which unlike the former cannot be misinterpreted as just a pretty
picture. What I am saying is abstraction's poignance arises from its simplicity
that is too often overlooked, a simplicity that not only enhances a painting's
lyric capacity but elevates the art by inflecting upon its very medium so that
the artist, the process, the art meld into one. Why should a Ronnie Landfield
stare at us less directly and speak to us from further away than Vermeer's GIRL
WITH A PEARL EARRING? In one brush stroke dashing across the surface, one color
reaching upwards, dancing among many in our human dynamism, we see not a
landscape or a portrait but a visual ode singing the tune of our inner
complexity.

To stay clear of art's mystique, I must mention the regrettable reality is that
any mention of art is preceded by its reputation. In this sense, art is like
wine tasting. Wine tasting and, even more importantly, the acquired diction
developed to describe it unfortunately connote class aspiration, class
maintenance, and the whole system of media that reinforce wine's continued
esteem and consumption. We don't dwell a second on wine's unfermented cousin,
the unremarkable grape juice, but we go to considerable lengths to distinguish
between wines by variety, region, year, and color. Though we may sensibly
separate a heavy malbec from a mild pinot noir, when we start throwing around
phrases like "flavor of blackberry", "notes of earthy vanilla", "hints of
seasoned red plum", and "a rich dark chocolate lingering in the aftertaste", all
the while affecting a poker face as we swirl and sniff ourselves into high
oblivion, should we not ask ourselves if there might not be a more productive
use of time than making an impression? Any genuine appreciation for wine is
quickly extinguished when artifice enters the conversation. So too is art when
we chase the big name, attach a price tag, and enshroud it in undue mystery. The
art market has not escaped the American variety of ruthless capitalism, and
decades of rising economic inequality has permitted the rise of rogue
billionaires who patronize rogue artists like Damien Hirst and Jeff Koons. Why
do some artists fetch handsome sums at Christie's or Sotheby's while many of
their peers struggle, forced to sell their work on the street? There is a market
whose taste is determined by an exclusive community, and the clients, keen on
entertaining guests of similar standing, viewing a painting as an investment,
patting themselves on the back for procuring a rarefied treasure for the spouse,
transact in prestige which, too, can be bought. The truth is that the chief
executive officers, the hedge fund managers, and those in the professional class
whose wealth has passed the threshold where capital allocation alone suffices
for comfortable living have not, over the course of their upward career
trajectory, had the time to calibrate artistic taste. The real artist, dedicated
to his craft as a parent to a child, for whom art is a means of living, is at
the mercy of the tastemakers, the curators, the established critics. Such is
the art market. But American capitalism, ever eager to place its hand on every
exchange, bends the market to its own morality. This is not art for art's sake
but raw capitalism. Let us appreciate art on its own accord, art for all. As
Jerry Saltz says, anyone can look at art—including abstract art.

writing fiction is like<br>
doing pure math<br>
simply pen and paper.<br>
painting a world in abstract<br>
color and shape<br>
size and<br>
space

<br>

<h4>2019-10-19, 六. On Humility.</h4>
I came across some old archives from my college. In them, photos—I'll provide
the links at the end of this entry, but it is my hope that the reader resist
the itch to scroll down. The plague of modernity, fragmented, interrupting,
dispersed across screens, paper, devices, copies and versions, scrambled notes
and secluded apps, cross-referencing links, bold images and billboard pizzazz,
chaos and dementia all vying for attention, is not the lack of information but
the senseless deluge of it. In these old archives, photos: a past era spread across
decades, from the early to late 1900s. The exact dates, just one window among many,
are not important. Age is apparent in the photos: black-and-white, the box desktop
monitor, the oversized eyeglasses common in a bygone era. An image of the building
facade I know so well, that entrance colonnade, the familiar study rooms and
library stacks, the exposed brick in the background whose texture I can still
feel on my fingertips, whose varying shades of deep tan at the front of a
lecture hall I can still see from the back row. Photos of students and professors,
angled over a book, gesturing against a blackboard, a chin resting on a palm. These
are images of contemplation. I see my former professor too; he is young, the dawn
of the present's grey hair still on the unforeseeable horizon, and I am reminded of his
soft-spoken, deliberate words, his liberal smiles. Here in these images is an
ethos, a generation that has had its day. I ask: where has the time gone?
A day will come when my own present, captured in its 4K ultra-high definition,
its 60 FPS videos, its surround sound, will seem the same way the image my
former professor does to me.

Why am I consistently struck by images like these? They check me and my
obsessions, my principles and remorseless ventures, my defiances and rages, my
deep subversion and antipathy, my irreverence and disregard, my high
expectation, my absurdism  which proclaims with all its bared conviction the
active pursuit of personal meaning, hinged on individualism and suffering. Who
can't revel when resources abound, when surplus is assured? Who can't lounge
at the resort, the tropical vacation, under the canopy of a beach umbrella? How
can you measure a man's worth without plunging him into confusion, without testing
his willpower, without questioning his premises, without first casting him into
continual self-doubt, without subjecting him to arduous probing, without seeing
what comes of him at the end, without the final analysis? How can you understand
him if you only broach the surface? Does not our brittle sentience oblige us to
something higher? Begin thus: shut the eyes, lock the world out, and create
your own. There is naive happiness: contagiously distracting, wholly irrelevant,
easy happiness. And yet is joy and elation not written in the eyes in those photos,
snapshots of once-luminous years now laid to rest, encrusted in digitized stone?
What justifies this morbid preoccupation, this pathological vexation? Who wanders
on the distant shore? There is immortality, transcendence, a surge for meaning,
the soaring spirit, and what but a mere few decades collapses a firestorm into
flickering vestiges, a reality no longer ignorable, a whirling intensity and dire
flame abated by universal inevitability? Push enough in one direction, and the
path converges on the other end, the whole ordeal turning out to be nothing more
than a simple circle. Is not man waking contradiction, lucid paradox? What lies in
the periphery erodes, our own constructions crumbling away, when we, at our silent,
inconsequential ends, rejoin the dust clouds. I remember the broad strokes of an
algorithm book's preface I chanced upon some years ago, encapsulated in these words:
"We are all born into this world grasping for comprehension. We leave it in much
the same way." As I gaze at these photos and am forced to confront the fate of our
collective humanity, I cave in to the flash of overwhelming sympathy, inspired
to the depths towards pure union, and am convinced that this is the veritable truth,
but do I not soon regain the call to existence? Am I not at every moment of ease
restless? And when among friends at an evening gathering, among companions
enjoying company, am I not suspicious of communal comfort, and am I not asking
myself whether I shouldn't be doing something productive? Perhaps I do not
see past youthful illusion, and I remain the perpetual sourpuss, the unyielding
killjoy. Perhaps the matter of fact is this habit of mine is needless exertion,
because—you, me, and everyone else—we're all just wasting time. A part of me,
down to its very blood and bones, its beating heart and spiritual core, longs
for transcendence. Another, which surfaces infrequently, and always with cataclysmic
delirium, crumbles down to earth, grovelling on its knees, defeated and repenting.
In me are disjoint visions, distal opposites, a fervent intensity which hardly
anyone can detect beneath a serene appearance and pliable demeanor, much less for
a people known far more for amenability than audacity, the orient's deep-rooted
harmony, because the strength of the outward thrust is paired with a stronger
restraint, dimpled by over-sensitive nerves quickly overwhelmed from multiple commotion.

I had come across the archive photos a while ago but was reminded of them after
I was, in the unpredicatable network of the internet, linked to the late
Jack Schwartz's In Memoriam site. Browsing the photos, I felt grounded, anchored.
The fact that the camera is not as sharp as contemporary ones dates the photos,
contextualizing them. Though I never met Jack, I saw in these images a life in
retrospect, countries I've also visited, travels I can relate to, and which,
as they appear in those images, seem to belong to Jack's time. To linger over the
past is an undiluted view—somber, yes—but it is a fate which not too far in the
future will be our own and which should evoke in us not only relation to another
time and how we are situated against it, but also emphasize what is at stake
when we live ours. The greatest divides are the boundaries across generations,
life experience locked away in the written word or the still photograph.

<a href="https://cims.nyu.edu/gallery/index.html">College photo archives</a><br>
<a href="https://cs.nyu.edu/cs/faculty/schwartz/In_Memoriam.html">Jack Schwartz</a><br>
<br>

<h4>2019-10-18, 五.</h4>
my campus footpath at the start of fall break<br>
under the early evening sun<br>
that eerie feeling<br>
emptiness where people should be<br>
like parts of the city, late at night

<br>

<h4>2019-10-07, 一.</h4>
having reconciled with the dread<br>
that I'd lost them with my move<br>
I encounter the tribe again<br>
in my cohort<br>
staring down the years ahead

<br>

<h4>2019-10-02, 三.</h4>
this morning’s decadence<br>
peanut butter from the jar<br>
expanding slowly on my bagel<br>

<br>

absorbed in thought<br>
I look up, recontextualizing myself<br>
glancing down two seconds later<br>
a blank mind<br>
I’ve lost my place<br>

<br>

walking in hurried strides<br>
pause for a moment, let the rush subside<br>
immerse in the anonymous<br>
project your focus outside<br>
view yourself from the sky<br>
lost in the heaping crowd<br>
that old city life<br>

<br>

<h4>2019-09-30, 一. Towards Mundanity.</h4>
It seems to me that there is a misplaced importance in the glittery and special,
the infrequent and towering. Consider for a minute what we deem noteworthy, the
occasions, the people, the excursions we wish to record in some form so we may
later remember the original instance. Imagine what tempts us to take a photo:
family reunions, smiles at the museum next to Starry Night, a friend's birthday
party, a beached whale, scuba diving in the lagoon, gazing outwards at the
dappled skyscraper lights in the twilight cityscape from top of the Empire State
Building. Imagine what we write about: intrigue, mystery, cataclysm,
swashbuckling drama, romance, adventure, fantasy, conjured fiction. The objects
and events which atract our remembrances are not those that embody our lived
experience which bears the bulk of our hours and days but which are instead the
rogue anomalies, sparkling and fanciful yet sparse and detached, unrealistic and
unrepresentative. Why is it that we pay almost exclusive attention to those
infrequent moments and overlook what occupies the bulk of our daily lives, the
very things that go unnoticed for the simple fact that the evening commute, the
season's pantry selections, the foible during Wednesday's thunderstorm, the
arrangement of books, papers, furnishings in the apartment, the brittle morning
quietude, are common and invariant? These elements of our present context, the
details of our facticity, should be cherished and appreciated precisely because
we tend not to see them, and we cannot see their value when we've acclimated to
the certainty of their presence in the periphery because they acquire contrast
and nostalgic meaning only in the years afterwards when the familiarity and
habituated motions we had once taken for granted which had, without thought,
colored our backgrounds are no longer accessible beyond vague and, by then,
certainly distorted memory, in those moments when we long that time also flows
backwards.

To each his own chosen delights and dissipation. What is revolting is when
natural complexity is buried by a pacifying smile which disregards and invalidates
these indispensible considerations, banishing them to nonexistence. Mundane and
common, yes, though nothing less than an appetite for the taste of existence,
melancholic and transient.

<br>

<h4>2019-09-29, 日.</h4>
There is a pond outside, wavelings rippling across the surface, a soft, gentle,
constant wind billowing over its still mass. Two adolescent geese are floating
near the edge, wings folded, necks tall and curved like cranes, feathered chests
thrust out like a hen sitting on her eggs, enticing to the hands like a
pomeranian's coat. It is a cloudy afternoon, a uniform grey pall, bleak and gloom
looming in the skies above, time seemingly halted, the movements of the guiding
lights in abeyance, left without an announcement when early afternoon
becomes early evening. Perhaps it is the changing of the seasons. A mild chill
this morning, headwind of the winter ahead.

<br>

<h4>2019-09-28, 六.</h4>
I am sitting in the driver's seat. My mind is frazzled, in disarray, inklings
of flickering thoughts branching in remorseless rampance, so many, so variable,
too disorganized to pursue. A sense of loss. I am driving down Douglas Road,
stuck in unusual traffic, behind an SUV stopped by a red light. I pause, shut
my eyes, take advantage of the sterile moment, hoping to quell my racing thoughts
again, this time once and for all. I had been catching up with myself all day,
tracing the lingering images, inspirations, encounters of the week which had not
yet been given due time, the weekend a reprieve from the barbarous class schedule,
being tossed between buildings and classrooms, littered with hectic meetings, to-do
lists, chaos, fragmented attention. And I had been telling myself that even on the
weekend I shouldn't lapse into rest, letting myself loosen up and breathe, that
instead I should be working. I am, after all, in graduate school. Isn't that what
I moved here for, the busyness, the urgently packed miscellanea of academic life,
a new start? When the SUV starts moving, I realize why the road is crowded: it
must be football weekend. I am on my way to J's dinner which the day before I
resolved not to attend, then considered, re-considered, settled, uprooted, a
whole series of vacillations so typical of my character, demanding routine and
predictability yet given to sudden whims and unexpected routs. My thoughts are
unstable, and I am weary from the day's brooding and pacing, the torrent unleashed
by the weekend's dam opening the floodgates of accumulated mental weight, and
pursuing each trace is tiring, a private preoccupation, the weekend in the
apartment a furnace of dilemma and quandary, sinking into contemplation after
which there is no concretized proof of progress but which leaves me relieved
and in touch with myself, a weekly rite of passage. I fret at a question that
seems to come easily to others and which is answered just as readily, in what
to them is a natural wave of the hand and which has never occurred to me as a
simple inquiry, not because I do not wish to reply, but simply because I do not
know how to answer in a way that satisfies me, much less in the immediacy of
casual small-talk: how was my weekend? What may strike others as unfruitful,
uneventful, wallowing, unhealthy, and invented difficulty are what permeate the
time I have on my own, my home life, which is difficult not only because it
does not lend itself to communication and relatability, but also because it is
ethereal, lost even to myself unless I write these ruminations down. This is,
I suppose, what defines my home life, my little adventures: unpalatable difficulty.
But isn't this my default state? To step outside and mingle is easy, comforting,
relaxing, but I cannot help but be wary of its draws towards complacence,
deceptive alleviation, able to stroll in contentment for it has side-stepped the
obligatory uncertainty which, without the forces of disguising compliance, lies
in the plain. Plagued by unfinished strands of thought, an octopus' arms flailing
about, unbeknownst to anyone as always behind my serene demeanor, I had forced
myself to step out the apartment for dinner. I am driving down a road, half-baked
in the head, half-delirious, precarious in my habits, not fully re-integrated
with reality which I usually re-encounter on Monday but which I can cope with
because I know it in advance as a matter of weekly routine. The laws of nature are
difficult, but so is the human psyche. If this private, continual journey delves
further and further inwards, it is in pursuit of eventual self-discovery. We are
each of us, if given proper consideration, our own worlds waiting to be unveiled.

I’m not the only one buying them after all<br>
none left at my supplier<br>
my bagels ran out last night<br>

<br>

<h4>2019-09-23, 一. Excerpt from the little black book.</h4>
Even the presence of company somehow siphons my energy. How can this be?
It is enervating, debilitating, constraining, as if my creative latitude has
contracted, my exploratory freedom diminished. A sense of companionship gives me
at once the comfort of belonging to a group but also a group's conforming
tendencies and impulses in which my instincts are muted, not permitted to
stretch. The conversations that come closest to satisfaction are with only one
other, when I can probe deeply, one-on-one, free from a group's desultory
whims and intrusive, distracting, irrelevant itches and bouts, the inevitable
trajectory of any social engagement, yet as I am walking to class with J, as I
am sitting beside her in the lecture hall, I feel unable to be fully myself, to
linger on my doubts and uncertainties, instead irremediably exuding a calm
masquerade, putting off equanimity and poise, obeying societal prodding due to
internal proclivities I've come to realize have not entirely eroded during the
course of my asocial years but which have been lying dormant and are resurfacing
beyond my will, when the state  of affairs is that I am turbulent, restless,
excitable, and in dire need of the independence availed by solitary work. After
an accompanied episode, I have not only phased out of touch with my internal
state, having lost track of my private compass, having left my cloistered
ecosystem unattended for an interrupting duration, a black chasm gapingly torn
open, almost an unknown void between the moment I was last aware of myself and
my present disorientation, whose back-filling demands recallibration and
reflection, but I am also fatigued, aghast that my redoubled effort at
socialization competes with my very nature.

<br>

<h4>2018-05-21, 一.</h4>
I like firm showerheads with delightful pressure, no-sugar-added cheesecake,
unscented handsoap, pens that don't smear my hand's belly as it slides across
the page, pleasant saxophonists lighting up the subway with jazzy melodies,
dark humor, deep conversation, lightweight banter, naughter sarcasm, vulnerable
confessions, playful teasing, spending time sharing strange stories, mistakes
made, lingering and unresolved grievances, revealing and then laughing,
remaining sincere and faithful to the layered nuances of living, breathing, and
feeling.

<br>

<h4>2018-05-08, 二.</h4>
I've been told on multiple occasions I look like a student. People notice it,
though it's not true. It seems that I give off the impression that I'm younger
than my years. Recently at the post office I was asked, by a cashier with
greying hair and a suspicious hesitation gleaming from his eyes, how old I was.
Sometimes the waitress at the bar cards me, because my charming youth unsettles
even the general appearance of maturity from amongst a group of exclusively
older friends, none of them less than half a decade my senior, who had all
already ordered and all without provoking the matron's protective instinct. I
was once reading diligently in the park when a woman, despite my ostensibly
studious posture nonetheless insisted on striking up a conversation, promptly
asked whether I'm a high school student, and I later had to convince myself
that it was not my choice of reading, whose cover was conveniently hidden in its
seated prostration on my lap, but whose hefty size could only have indicated
otherwise, that suggested the question. Also in recent memory is a treasure
hunt for the UPS drop box at the Presbyterian Hospital on 68th, the sole option
at that time in the evening still open for services that was also reasonably
close by, when I, in my youthful impatience, could not wait until the following
day to ship a package. It seems those hospital folk don't ship packages often
because their directions to some secluded hallway in the basement must've been
rooted in that UPS drop box's heydays when it was formerly in demand, because
it has since moved, and the basement folk, who must've been informed of the
move of such a promising and cherished protégé which had proven, in time's
merciless onslaught, to not live up to anticipated popularity and had now been
cast away in disappointment to some back corner, pointed to the nearby stairs
back up to the first floor, across the corridor, down another hallway, and, in
the course of navigating so ingeniously designed a hospital, I passed the
entrance lobby from which I arrived, coming full circle, realizing that the
two directions were hopelessly misaligned, and in the ensuing flurry in search
of the holy land, the secret sanctum, the yogi's peace, nirvana in a box, it
slowly dawned on me that, really, no one knew where the UPS drop-off was. Or,
perhaps more accurately, they were simply directing this little, uncomprehending
youth in meandering circles, round and about, until he gave up on his own
accord, the hospital masterminds acting as one, collectively and telepathically
amusing themselves with their devious tricks and medical humor, because who but
a malicious miscreant with hidden motives shows up at the hospital so late at
night and with nothing better to do than to drop off a dainty cardboard box—
who knows what's in there and what he plans to do? Long story short, the UPS
box is indeed in the basement, but cloistered at the flank of the cafeteria
known as the Garden Cafe—maybe the eponymous garden is no measly, nameless
garden of harmless shrubs and idle tulips, but rather a minefield of treacherous
strife, a religious rite of passage, the Garden of Eden lost, corrupted,
blighted, and man, searching for his return to bliss, must navigate its deadly
swamps under the guise of heartwarming food that lull the senses with its
lunchtime decor. I stood by the doors at the cafe's entrance, evaluating the
danger, thinking, this garden must be the last obstacle, the final precipice,
the most trying test. Needless to say, this is where many a sailor who, weary
and exhausted from sailing the unforgiving high seas, the mind-bogging and
labyrinthine hospital, content themselves with an easy, filling meal, call it
a day, and turn their backs on their original noble mission. But not this
seasoned sailor. To reach the fabled treasure trove, I bolted into a Rocky-dash
up a flight of stairs with exactly four steps, pummeled past twin doors with no
comforting EXIT sign in red neon above—there's no exit in this one—actually
there might have been but at that moment I was at the height of my powers, a
car on seventh gear, too focused to divert my attention on anything but the
end goal, so let's go with the story—and, as if by intuited scent, made an
immediate sharp left, and there it was: the storied UPS box, hugging the wall,
next to its second cousin the Fedex box, in a messy bed of cardboard dangling
on the floor. I found myself in the middle of a dimly lit hall, and I glanced
quickly both ways, left then right, then left again to eye my proper reward,
the haloed UPS offshoot, and I saw in this hall a ghostly post-apocalyptic
world just a door beyond, as silent and harrowing as the two abandoned
blue-leathered stretchers standing in the background, with only each other for
company in their dilapidated, forgotten, eternal melancholy, an early image of
the end to come. Anyways, back to the reason I brought this story up: one of the
security guards I inquired on my adventure was a young lass, late twenties at
most, who at the end of our encounter made a note of appending the endearing
label of "darling" to "have a good evening", the sort of diminutive affection
that one adult would not share with another, particularly with a stranger,
particularly from a lady when the stranger is a grown man, but only with
someone deemed juvenile and adolescent, and I, walking away, wondered if it was
my demure, solicitous earnesty that reminded her of a child holding out his
hands, pleading for his allowance, and provoked her to reveal, as she saw it,
the state of affairs. I deserve the credit of my years! I've weathered a quarter
of a century! That's hard work!

<br>

<h4>2018-02-19, 一.</h4>
In my field, there's a concentration of analytical, rational, and fiercely
logical types, which I supposes in only fitting, considering this line of work,
and though I can spar toe-to-toe with my coworkers, I frequently find myself
left unsatisfied with the interactions, that though tasks a, b, and c may be
completed double-quick, I have a lingering malaise nudging at my insides, as if
I'm missing something I can't exactly pinpoint, as if moving rapidly through
to-do lists and completing the day's tasks is not quite enough. So while my
colleagues may no sooner remove the last item off their stack than they fling
themselves wholly to another concrete pursuit, I am almost always dawdling
behind, wondering in a trance about this strange incompleteness and, in brief
intervals, why I feel this way. I've grown fairly accustomed to this feeling
by now, and I think I know the reason: deep down I have a yearning that life is
not simply a procession of successive objectives, bullet points, and graspable
actions, because there's a greater satisfaction in touching a dimension beyond
the fabric of physical existence. I get this feeling sometimes too at the movie
theatre when the credits roll, and you hear the sound of those cinema seats
springing back to their upright positions, the audience emptying out, and I
remain seated, gazing at the twilight finale. I used to get it too in school,
when class ends and everyone is rushing to depart, and I'd think, isn't it a
wonder that just a minute ago the room was filled with eager youth, that only
a moment's passing as quick as the flip of a coin can so transform a room
from brimming, untamable energy to nostalgic quietude, that even now the chairs
are still warm. I don't think many of my colleagues will appreciate one of
my strange ruminations—listen: water droplets at the faucet are slowly dripping
into the wash basin!

Maybe I'm just coming up with excuses for my habitual daydreaming, though I
insist that I have a preoccupation with transcendence. You'll understand if the
following excerpt from Pablo Neruda's CON ELLA (WITH HER) unsuspectingly disarms
you, sends you to the clouds for the brief moments you're reading it, and you
stop in your tracks, seized by its beckoning call:

-In the original Spanish:

Como es duro este tiempo, espérame:<br>
vamos a vivirlo con ganas<br>
Dame tu pequeña mano:<br>
vamos a subir y sufrir<br>
vamos a sentir y saltar

-In English:

This time is difficult. Wait for me.<br>
We will live it out vividly.<br>
Give me your small hand:<br>
we will rise and suffer<br>
we will feel, we will fly


